React is a open source JS library created and maintained by meta. React is used for better user Interface. 
React divides whole application/UI into multiple small reusable parts called components
React is also used to create single page applications

React was first released in 2013 by facebook(meta). it was initially used for building facebook news feed,later it was open sourced and its community got increased

Advantages of React:
 1. fast and efficient
 2. React code easy to understand and maintain(declarative code)
 3.React is a component based architecture used to build large and active community of developers
 
 How to start first react code?
  Don't use create-react-app

  1. open vs code --> open a folder -->open terminal --> new terminal --> cd folder-name --> 
  npm create vite@latest

  vite is a modern web developmenet build tool that provides fast and efficient way to build and serve web applications
    Enter project name--->select react--> javascript +Enter

    vite will scaffold all the folder with respective project name
    "cd projectName"
    "npm install"
    "npm run dev"

2. goto folder --> src---> App.jsx --> delete htl code and write new HTML code and save(cntrl+s) and verify output 

vite will run your code on every change called HMR(Hot module Reloading)
Folder Structure:
   vite installs many files and folders when creating react app. Each and every file folder descriptions are:

   i. vite.config.js -- it contains rules that vite bundler follows
   ii. Readme.md -- it contains instructions of our project.
   iii. package.json -- it contains meta data of your project
   iv. package.lock.json -- it contains met data of each library in node_modules
   iv. index.html -- it is the main HTML file
   v. eslint.cong.js -- used for error finding errors of every library
   vi. gitignore -- contains list of files or folders that needs to ignored by git
   vii. public -- contains all the files that needs to resourced(images,pdf,etc..,)
   viii. node_modules -- contains all the packages will be here
   ix. src -- contains all main jsx code
      main.jsx -- it is the main file to connect index.html and it renders
      App.jsx into index.html

      App.jsx -- it is a component that can be repreated multiple times




React JSX:  JSX stands for javascript xml, it is nothing but using HTML inside JS. JSX will return only one value. If you need to return more than one value, then keep the code inside a container element like div, section ,nav etc..,

React also gives an option of transparent container called Fragments. you can write fragmnets as empty brackets or React.fragment

Function component must starts name with uppercase letter and return JSX UI.
Components are used for reusability, modularity and flexibility
One component Inside another component is called Nested components

React JSX will use events as camelCase (eg: onClick), class should be written as className and HTML code should be between parenthesis () and JS code should be between {}




React Features: 
   1. components: React JS is completely about building reuable UI components. 
    Components are the Building blocks of React Application.
   2.  JSX: JSX is a syntax extension for javascript that allows you to write HTML inside JS
   3. virtual DOM: React uses a virtual DOM ( alightweight in-memory representation of the real DOM ) to update/optimize rendering and improve performance











 